Esta ontologia utiliza as ontologias BFO e IAO.
Este repositório contém os arquivos .owl, árvore do modelo criado no Protégé e relatório do trabalho.

Baseia-se na seguinte descrição de domínio (feita em inglês para compatibilidade com as ontologias importadas):
## Predictive Maintenance and Health Monitoring System

Let be a system responsible for predictive maintenance and health monitoring of a facility, such as an oil and gas extraction platform. This system may be considered as a part of the whole facility maintenance system and is composed by the equipment selected to be monitored, sensors that monitor the physical quantities and information necessary to predict the equipment’s condition (pressure, flow, electric current, voltage, vibration, temperature, noise, rust, abrasion level, integrity of the parts, iron filing level in the bearing grease), a supervisory system that gathers these information and displays alerts whenever any of those measurements are out of the specified range, the technical maintenance team that install and uninstall the equipment, execute maintenance actions, collect samples (if needed) to detect any anomalous condition in the equipment, and a maintenance engineering team to decide wether and when is necessary any maintenance intervention.

In this example, there is 4 equipment selected to be monitored: pump B-01 installed in the bottom of the oil well, the electric motor M-01 that drives the pump B-01 and installed attached to it, and their respective spare equipment: the pump B-02 and the electric motor M-02. The technical maintenance team is composed by 4 technicians: Jerry, Moacir, Marcos and Jeferson. The maintenance engineering team is composed by 3 engineers: Rafael, Caldas and Ulysses. In this system there are real-time measurements in the supervisory system of the following physical quantities: the suction and discharge pressure of B-01, flow through B-01, B-01 and M-01 bearings vibration, propeled petroleum temperature, voltage and current of M-01. Once happens any alert in the supervisory system, the maintenance engineering team evaluates the necessity of stopping the operation or not so that the equipment can be brought to the platform for inspection and maintenance. Once the intervention is considered necessary, the maintenance engineering team opens an immediate maintenance work order in the Computerized Maintenance Management System (CMMS) and communicate the operation the need to stop the running equipment for maintenance. The stopped equipment are brought up to the platform, and the maintenance technician working in the current turn evaluates the equipment’s general conditions (rust, abrasion, integrity of the parts of M-01 and B-01), collect samples from the bearings grease from B-01 and M-01 and send them to laboratory analysis. The out-of-order equipment can be fixed or replaced by its working spare so that they can be started and the production restablished. Then, the technician fill the maintenance work order data in the CMMS.

The maintenance engineering team have acess to the information gathered by the real-time sensors, as well as the reports generated by the maintenance technical team. They also use specific maintenance engineering softwares to make predictions. So, if needed, a maintenance notification is opened in the CMMS, and the discovered anomaly will be treated along other maintenance pendencies (either preventive or corrective).
